ACC-601 feat: adds syndication documentation (#233)
Financial-Times/next-syndication-api: doc/SYNDICATION.md

> - **Quick Overview**

Reviewer: Maybe rather than using bolding for itemising, use .md format for headings? (`#`, `##`, `###`) - that was you can make a index with references (if you wish)

    Syndication (also known as Republishing), is the term for allowing other publishers to use our content in their own publications. At the time of writing this there are over 200 Syndication licences and nearly 600 end users for those licences. In total those ~200 licences amount to over £3.2m.

> 

Reviewer: amount to over £3.2m per... year? quarter? month?

Author: Removed those figures as they should now be outdated.

        ![ft_homepage.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/ft_homepage.png)

        The symbols indicates different syndication grants:

        ![syndication_symbols.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/syndication_symbols.png)

        On clicking on the `green tick` icon, the user can save or download the content

        ![syndication_modal.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/syndication_modal.png)

    - **Republishing Platform**

        On the top right corner on the page, the `Republishing` link takes users to the republishing platform.

        ![republishing_menu.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/republishing_menu.png)

        On the republishing tool, Users can see their contract details, allowance details and select their preferred download format.

        ![republishing_platform.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/republishing_platform.png)

>         Users can also manage saved, downloaded and spanish content.

Reviewer: capital S for Spanish?

- **Key systems**

    - [**n-syndication**](https://github.com/Financial-Times/n-syndication)

>         This is the client side library responsible for adding syndication symbols next to articles/podcast and videos headlines on ft.com. Allowing syndication customers to download or save content for republishing.

Reviewer: Semantic nitpicking `articles/podcast, and videos headlines` mixes plural and singular, maybe stick to one or the other?

        **What it does**

        - Checks if logged in user is a syndication user
        - Gets all the `contentIds` from the DOM

            ![get_content_ids_snippet.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/get_content_ids_snippet.png)

        - Passes them to [next-syndication-api](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/tree/master/doc#post-syndicationresolve) to get the syndication data for each content ID

            ![syndication_api_response_snippet.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/syndication_api_response_snippet.png)

        - Uses the response to put the syndication symbols
        
    - [**next-syn-list**](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syn-list)

        This is the application for the republishing platform.

        The republishing platform allows users to view their contract, manage saved and downloaded content

    - [**next-syndication-api**](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api)

>         This is the REST API responsible for powering syndication (Heart of syndication). It lives in heroku with a Postgres DB attached. It handles request from the `n-syndication` and `next-syn-list`. It also runs some cron jobs and sync tasks

Reviewer: I thought the DB is on AWS? Or is it that the backups live on AWS but the actual DB is on Heroku?

Author: It's the latter.

The actual DB is in Heroku. Can be seen on the [dashboard for ft-next-syndication-api on Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/ft-next-syndication-api) under Installed Add-ons section.

The backups are what is stored in an [S3 bucket on AWS](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-db-schema#where-are-the-backups).

Users can also manage saved, downloaded and Spanish content.

## Key systems

### [**n-syndication**](https://github.com/Financial-Times/n-syndication)

This is the client side library responsible for adding syndication symbols next to article/podcast and video headlines on ft.com. Allowing syndication customers to download or save content for republishing.

**What it does**

- Checks if logged in user is a syndication user
- Gets all the `contentIds` from the DOM

![get_content_ids_snippet.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/get_content_ids_snippet.png)

- Passes them to [next-syndication-api](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/tree/master/doc#post-syndicationresolve) to get the syndication data for each content ID

![syndication_api_response_snippet.png](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/blob/feat/add-syndication-md/doc/images/syndication_api_response_snippet.png)

- Uses the response to put the syndication symbols

### [**next-syn-list**](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syn-list)

> This is the application for the republishing platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the application for the Republishing platform.
```

> The republishing platform allows users to view their contract, manage saved and downloaded content

Reviewer 2: This is already explained in the Republishing platform paragraph. Let's avoid repetition so we reduce maintenance and the risk of out-of-dates parts. 
```suggestion
```

### [**next-syndication-api**](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api)

> This is the REST API responsible for powering syndication (Heart of syndication). It lives in heroku with a Postgres DB attached. It handles request from the `n-syndication` and `next-syn-list`. It also runs some cron jobs and sync tasks

Reviewer 2: Shall we always use `Syndication` with capital S? Well also Heroku is a name so it should be capitalised 😄 
```suggestion
This is the REST API responsible for powering Syndication. It lives in Heroku with a Postgres DB attached. It handles requests from `n-syndication` and `next-syn-list`. It also runs some Cron jobs and sync tasks.
```

Here are the available [API endpoints](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/tree/master/doc)

**What it does**
- Manages connection and interactions with attached Postgres DB
- Stores most of its data in the Postgres DB

> - Every 24 hours updates information about contracts with up to date data from salesforce.

Reviewer 2: Because this is not the tech doc of the system you are describing I would remove data that can change (like 24 hours) so we avoid to have them out of date. For more precise information the Engineers should read the doc of that specific repo.
```suggestion
- Periodically updates information about contracts with up to date data from Salesforce.
```

- Data about saved and downloaded content is added to the DB

> - It stores Personal Identifiable Information (Membership API were flaky)

Reviewer 2: In the future, we should investigate if this is still the case. Remove this part could make the application simpler and less critical in case of data breach.

Author: Yes, also different tables store user_id, name, and email which is not ideal and difficult to maintain across all of them. Would add a ticket to the backlog in regards to this.

**Cron Jobs**
- **Backup**
    - Runs every hour  `0 7 * * * *`
    - Export database schema, zips it and uploads it to the `production` folder of the `next-syndication-db-backups` bucket on AWS (FT Infra Prod account).
- **Redshift**
    - Runs once a day `0 0 7 * * *`
    - Export analytics and uploads it to the `redshift` folder of the `next-syndication-db-backups` bucket on AWS (FT Infra Prod account).
- **Tidy-Bucket**

>     - Runs once a day `0 0 2 * * *`

Reviewer 2: As I mentioned, if we change the schedule will we remember to update this part here?
Better would be to say something like `Runs periodically` and link to the bit of code where the Cron is.

The descriptions are good 👍

    - Deletes backup and redshift files older than one month from the S3 bucket.

The cron jobs are defined [here](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/tree/master/worker/crons)

**Sync Tasks**
- **content-es**
    - Subscribes to `next-syndication-translations` SQS on AWS(FT Infra Prod account).
    - When a `created` event is triggered, the content is created / updated in the PostgresDB .
    - When a `deleted` event is triggered, the content is marked as deleted in the PostgresDB.

- **db-persist**
    - Subscribes to `next-syndication-downloads-prod` SQS on AWS(FT Infra Prod account).
    - When save, unsave, and download event is triggered, the event is
        - Written into the PostgresDB
        - Published to Spoor
        - For download event that requires contributor payment, an email syndication@ft.com with content, user and contract data

> The sync tasks are defined [here](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-api/tree/master/worker/sync)

Reviewer 2: Nice 👍

### [**next-syndication-dl**](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-dl)

Deploys `next-syndication-api` for the purposes of running the downloads as a separate application.

### [**next-syndication-lambdas**](https://github.com/Financial-Times/next-syndication-lambdas)
- Serverless application
- One function - transformXml
- Used for Spanish content

**How does it work - Spanish Content**

- A 3rd Party, Vanguard Publications translates the articles
- They upload the XML file into an S3 bucket called **ft-article-translations-en-to-es-from-vanguard-publications**
- This triggers a Lambda function which transforms the XML into JSON and puts it in another S3 bucket called **ft-next-content-translations**
- That triggers an event (on create and delete), which prompts the syndication-api to go and fetch the content, and upserts it into the Postgres DB (**syndication.content_es**)

> ### [**Syndication PostgresDB**]()

Reviewer 2: Missing link?
